"PHISH WWW Site"_pws - "PHISH Documentation"_pd - "Bait.py Commands"_pc :c

:link(pws,http://phish.sandia.gov)
:link(pd,Manual.html)
:link(pc,Bait.html)

:line

layout command :h3

[Syntax:]

connect sendID:outport style recvID:inport

sendID = ID of minnows which will send datums
outport = output port datums are written to by sending minnows (default = 0)
style = kind of connection between sending minnows and receiving
minnows = {single} or {paired} or {hashed} or {roundrobin} or {direct} or {bcast} or {chain} or {ring} or {publish} or {subscribe}
recvID = ID of minnows which will receive datums
inport = input port datums are read from by receiving minnows (default
= 0) :ul

[Examples:]

connect ... :pre

[Description:]

Connect is a command that can be used in a PHISH input script which is
recognized by the "bait.py"_Bait.html setup program.  It determines
how the output from one minnow is routed to the input of another
minnow when the PHISH program is run.  In PHISH lingo, a "minnow" is a
stand-alone application which makes calls to the "PHISH
library"_Library.html to exchange data with other PHISH minnows.

The topology of connections defined by a series of connect commands
defines how a school of minnows is harnessed together to perform a
desired computational task.  It also defins how parallelism is
exploited by the collection of minnows.

A connection is made between two sets of minnows, one set sends
datums, the other set receives them.  Each set may contain one or more
processes, where a process is a single minnow.  The
"layout"_bait_layout.html command specifies how many minnows run
within each set.  Since a datum is typically sent from a single minnow
to a single receiving minnow, the style of the connection determines
which minnow in the sending set communicates with which minnow in the
receiving set.

Each minnow can send datums through specific output ports.  If a
minnow defines N output ports, then they are numbered 0 to N-1.
Likewise a minnow can receive data through specific input ports.  If a
minnow defines M input ports, then they are numbered 0 to M-1.  Ports
enable a minnow to have multiple input and output connections, and for
a PHISH input script to connect a single set of minnows to multiple
other sets of minnows with different communication patterns.  For
example, a stream of data might be processed by a minnow, reading from
its input port 0, and writing to its output port 0.  But the minnow
might also look for incoming datums on its input port 1, that signify
some kind of external message from a "control" minnow triggered by the
user, e.g. asking the minnow to print out its current statistics.  See
the "Minnows"_Minnows.html doc page for more information about how
minnows can define and use ports.

The specified {sendID} and {outport} are the minnows which will send
datums through their output port {outport}.  If {outport} is not
specified with a colon following the {sendID}, then a default
output port of 0 is assumed.

The specified {recvID} and {inport} are the minnows which will receive
the sent datums through their input port {inport}.  If {inport} is not
specified with a colon following the {recvID}, then a default input
port of 0 is assumed.

Both {sendID} and {recvID} must be the IDs of minnows previously
defined by a "minnow"_bait_minnow.html command.

Note that there can be multiple connect commands which connect the
same {sendID} and same (or different) {outport} to different
{recvID:inport} minnows.  Likewise, there can be multiple connect
commands which connect the same {recvID} and same (or different)
{inport} to different {sendID:outport} minnows.  There can even be
multiple connect commands which connect the same {sendID} and same (or
different) {outport} to the same {recvID:inport} minnows.

Also note that for all of the styles (except as noted below), the
{sendID} and {recvID} can be the same, meaning a set of minnows will
send datums to themselves.

:line

These are the different connection styles supported by the
connect command.

The {single} style connects {N} sending minnows to one receiving
minnow.  {N} = 1 is allowed.  All the sending minnows send
their datums to a single receiving minnow.

The {paired} style connects {N} sending minnows to {N} receiving
minnows.  {N} = 1 is allowed.  Each of the {N} sending minnows
sends it datums to a specific partner receiving minnow.

The {hashed} style connects {N} sending minnows to {M} receiving
minnows.  {N} does not have to equal {M}, and either or both of {N},
{M} = 1 is allowed.  When any of the {N} minnows sends a datum, it
must also define a value for the PHISH library to hash on, which will
determine which of the {M} receiving minnows it is sent to.  See the
doc page for the "phish_send_hashed()"_phish_send.html library
function for more explanation of how this is done.

The {roundrobin} style connects {N} sending minnows to {M} receiving
minnows.  {N} does not have to equal {M}, and either or both of {N},
{M} = 1 is allowed.  Each of the {N} senders cycles through the list
of {M} receivers each time it sends a datum, in a roundrobin fashion.
a different.  If the receivers are numbered 0 to M-1, a sender will
send its first datum to 0, its 2nd to 1, its Mth to M-1, its M+1 datum
to 0, etc.

The {direct} style connects {N} sending minnows to {M} receiving
minnows.  {N} does not have to equal {M}, and either or both of {N},
{M} = 1 is allowed.  When any of the {N} minnows sends a datum, it
must also choosed a specific one of the {M} receiving minnows to sent
to.  See the doc page for the "phish_send_direct()"_phish_send.html
library function for more explanation of how this is done.

The {bcast} style connects {N} sending minnows to {M} receiving
minnows.  {N} does not have to equal {M}, and either or both of {N},
{M} = 1 is allowed.  When any of the {N} minnows sends a datum, it
sends a copy of it once to each of the {M} receiving minnows.

The {chain} style configures {N} minnows as a 1-dimensional chain so
that each minnow sends datums to the next minnow in the chain, and
likewise each minnow receives datums from the previous minnow in the
chain.  The first minnow in the chain cannot receive, and the last
minnow in the chain cannot send. {N} > 1 is required.  The {sendID}
must also be the same as the {recvID}, since the same set of minnows
is sending and receiving.

The {ring} style is the same as the {chain} style, except that the {N}
minnows are configured as a 1-dimensional loop.  Each minnow sends
datums to the next minnow in the loop, and likewise each minnow
receives datums from the previous minnow in the loop.  This includes
the first and last minnows.  {N} > 1 is required.  The {sendID} must
also be the same as the {recvID}, since the same set of minnows is
sending and receiving.

The {publish} and {subscribe} styles are different in that they do not
connect two sets of minnows to each other.  Instead they connect one
set of minnows to an external socket, either for writing or reading
datums.  The external socket will typically be driven by some external
program which is either reading from the socket or writing to it, but
the running PHISH program requires no knowledge of that program.  It
could be another PHISH program or some completely different program.

The {publish} style connects {N} sending minnows to a socket.  {N} = 1
is allowed.  The {recvID:inport} argument is replaced with a TCP port
#, which is an integer, e.g. 25.  When each minnow sends a datum it
will "publish" the bytes of the datum to that TCP port, on the machine
the minnow is running on.  In socket lingo, "publishing" means that
the sender has no communication with any processes which may be
reading from the socket.  The sender simply writes the bytes and
continues without blocking.  If no process is reading from the socket,
the datum is lost.

The {subscribe} style connects {M} receiving minnows to a socket.  {M}
= 1 is allowed.  The {sendID:outport} argument is replaced with a
hostname and TCP port #, separated by a colon, e.g. www.foo.com:25.
Each minnow receives datums by "subscribing" to the TCP port on the
specified host.  In socket lingo, "subscribing" means that the
receiver has no communication with any process which is writing to the
socket.  The receiver simply checks if a datum is available and reads
it.  If a new datum arrives before the receiver is ready to read it,
the datum is lost.

Note that multple processes can publish to the same physical socket,
and likewise multiple processes can subscribe to the same physical
socket.  In the latter case, each receiving process reads the same
published datum.

NOTE: how does the PHISH library check the socket and return
if there is no datum?

NOTE: how does the read from the socket delimit the PHISH datum,
so the minnow knows how much to read?

[Restrictions:]

The {publish} and {subscribe} styles are only supported by the socket
version of the PHISH library, not the MPI version.

[Related commands:]

"minnow"_bait_minnow.html, "layout"_bait_layout.html

[Default:] none
