"PHISH WWW Site"_pws - "PHISH Documentation"_pd - "Bait.py Commands"_pc :c

:link(pws,http://www.sandia.gov/~sjplimp/phish.html)
:link(pd,Manual.html)
:link(pc,Bait.html)

:line

set command :h3

[Syntax:]

set keyword value

keyword = {memory} or {self} or {queue} or {safe} or {port} or {pernode} or {numnode} or {bindorder} :ulb,l
  {memory} value = N
    N = max size of datum in Kbytes
  {self} value = S
    S = allow queueing of this many messages to self
  {queue} value = Q
    Q = allow queueing of this many previously received messages
  {safe} value = M
    M = send a datum "safely" every this many sends
  {pernode} value = Nc
    Nc = # of cores per node to use when binding minnows to processors
  {numnode} value = Nn
    Nn = # of nodes to use when binding minnows to processors
  {bindorder} value = B
    B = 0 = no bind order is imposed
    B = 1 = perform binding by looping over cores, then over nodes
    B = 2 = perform binding by looping over nodes, then over cores :pre
:ule

[Examples:]

set memory 1024
set self 20
set safe 10
set bindorder 2 :pre

[Description:]

Set is a command that can be used in a PHISH input script which is
recognized by the "bait.py"_Bait.html setup program.  It resets
default values that are used by the bait.py program as it reads and
processes commands from the PHISH input script.

:line

The {memory} keyword sets the maximum length of datums that are
exchanged by minnows when a PHISH program runs.  Send and receive
buffers for datums are allocated by the "PHISH
library"_Section_library.html.  The {N} setting is in Kbytes, so that
{N} = 1024 is 1 Mbyte, and {N} = 1048576 is 1 Gbyte.  The default is
{N} = 1, since typical PHISH minnows send and receive small datums.

The {self} keyword sets the size of a queue used to buffer datums sent
by a minnow to itself.  In most PHISH input scripts this never
happens, but it is allowed.  Since messages to self are received with
the highest priority by PHISH library functions such as phish_loop()
and phish_probe() that receive messages, it is also typical that this
queue needs to be no larger than $S$ = 1 message, since $S refers to
the maximum number of outstanding (sent, but not yet received)
messages.  But it can be set larger if a minnow may several sends (to
itself) before receiving a new message.

The {queue} keyword sets the size of a queue used to buffer previously
received datums when a minnow uses the phish_queue() and
phish_dequeue() library calls, so that it can process a received datum
later, after receiving other datums.  The $Q$ setting determines the
maximum number of datums that can be queued at one time in this
manner.

These 3 settings determine how much memory PHISH allocates.  There are
always 2 buffers of size {memory} = $N$, one for sending, one for
receiving.  There are at most {self} = $S$ buffers, each of size $N$,
allocated for self messages, and likewise at most {queue} = $Q$
buffers, each of size $N$, allocated for queued messages.  These
buffers for self and queued messages are only allocated if they are
needed as the PHISH script runs and messages are processed. Thus the
overall memory footprint of the PHISH library is typically tiny,
unless you set these parameters to large values.

:line

The {safe} keyword is only relevant for the MPI version of the PHISH
library.  It causes the library to use a "safe" MPI_Ssend() call every
Mth time it sends a datum, rather than the normal MPI_Send() function.
If M = 0, "safe" sends are never performed.

Safe in this context refers to messages being dropped if the receiving
process is backed up.  This can happen if a minnow in a PHISH school
of minnows is significantly slower to process datums than all the
others, and a large number of datums are being continually sent to it.
When a safe send is done, an extra handshake is performed between the
sender and receiver to insure the receiver is ready for the datum.
Doing this often enough should effectively throttle the incoming
messages to a slow minnow, so an overflow does not occur.  Note that
the extra handshaking between the MPI processes slows down the rate at
which small messages are exchanged, so you should not normally use
this setting unless MPI errors arise, e.g. due to "too many unexpected
messages".  A good setting for M depends on how many minnows are
sending to the overflowing minnow.  Typical MPI implementations allow
tens of thousands of small incoming messages to be queued, so M = 1000
or 10000 is fine if a single minnow is sending to the minnow.  If 10
minnows are sending to the overflowing minnow, then M should be
reduced by a factor of 10.

The {self} keyword is only relevant for the MPI version of the PHISH.
A PHISH net described by an input script can include
"hook"_bait_hook.html commands that route datums from a school back to
itself, e.g. in some kind of looping fashion.  This means that a
procesor can send messages to itself.  When this occurs the PHISH
library uses a buffered MPI_Bsend() call.  This avoids a possible hang
due to a blocking send, which can happen in some MPI implementations.
The value of {S} determines how big a buffer is reserved for the
buffered send operations.  It effectively means how many messsages (of
maximum size, as determined by the memory keyword above), can be sent
to self and buffered before they are received.  In most cases the
small default setting is sufficient, but if a minnow can send many
messages to itself before reading and processing them, you may need to
boost this setting to avoid an MPI error or hang.

The {pernode}, (numnode}, and {bindorder} keywords are used to tailor
the assignment of minnows to physical processors when the PHISH
program is run.  See the discussion of the {bind} option for the
"bait.py school"_bait_school.html command for more details on this
topic.

Note that the default setting of {numnode} is equal to the total
number of minnow instances {Np} in a PHISH input script, divided by
the {pernode} setting.  If {Np} is not evenly divisible by {pernode},
then {numnode} is incremented by one so that {numnode} * {pernode} >=
{Np}.

[Restrictions:] none

[Related commands:]

Any setting can be made in a PHISH input script or via the {--set} or
{-s} command-line arguments of the "bait.py"_Secttion_bait.html tool.

[Default:]

The default settings are memory = 1 (1 Kbyte), self = 8, queue = 8,
safe = 0, pernode = 1, numnode = # of minnows / pernode, and bindorder
= 0.
