"PHISH WWW Site"_pws - "PHISH Documentation"_pd - "Bait.py Commands"_pc :c

:link(pws,http://phish.sandia.gov)
:link(pd,Manual.html)
:link(pc,Bait.html)

:line

echo program :h3

[Syntax:]

echo :pre

this program takes no arguments :ul

[Examples:]

wrapsink "echo"
wrapss "echo" :pre

[Description:]

Echo is a stand-along non-PHISH program that can be wrapped with a
PHISH minnow so it can be used in a PHISH program.  In PHISH lingo, a
"minnow" is a stand-alone application which makes calls to the "PHISH
library"_Library.html to exchange data with other PHISH minnows.

The echo program simply reads lines from stdin and echoes them to
stdout.  PHISH minnows that can wrap the echo program include the
"wrapsink"_wrapsink.html and "wrapss"_wrapss.html, which convert
stdin/stdout into the receiving and sending of datums.

[Ports:]

The echo program does not call the PHISH library and thus does not use
PHISH ports directly.  But if it is wrapped with the
"wrapsink"_wrapsink.html or "wrapss"_wrapss.html minnows then they use
one input port 0 to receive datums which are then read by the echo
program via stdin.  If it is wrapped with the "wrapss"_wrapss.html
minnow then it uses one output port 0 to send datums that are written
to stdout by the echo program.

[Operation:]

The echo program simply reads a line of input from stdin and writes it
to stdout.  See the doc pages for the "wrapsink"_wrapsink.html or
"wrapss"_wrapss.html minnows for how they convert datums they receive
to lines of text that the echo program can read from stdin, and how
they convert lines of text that the echo program writes to stdout to
datums they send.

[Data:]

The echo program does not call the PHISH library and thus does not
deal directly with PHISH data types.

[Restrictions:] none

The C++ version of the echo program allocates a buffer of size MAXLINE
= 1024 bytes for reading a line from stdin.  This can be changed (by
editing minnow/echo.cpp) if longer lines are needed.

[Related programs:]

"reverse"_reverse.html
