"PHISH WWW Site"_pws - "PHISH Documentation"_pd - "Bait.py Commands"_pc :c

:link(pws,http://phish.sandia.gov)
:link(pd,Manual.html)
:link(pc,Bait.html)

:line

phish_query() function :h3

[C syntax:]

int phish_query(char *keyword, int flag1, int flag2) :pre

keyword = "idlocal" or "nlocal" or "idglobal" or "nglobal" or "inport/status" or "inport/nconnect" or "inport/nminnows" or "outport/status" or "outport/nconnect" or "output/nminnows" or "outport/direct" :ulb,l
  idlocal ignores flag1,flag2
  nlocal ignores flag1,flag2
  idglobal ignores flag1,flag2
  nglobal ignores flag1,flag2
  inport/status uses flag1 = input port # (0 to Maxport-1), ignores flag2
  inport/nconnect uses flag1 = input port # (0 to Maxport-1), ignores flag2
  inport/nminnow uses flag1 = input port # (0 to Maxport-1),
                      flag2 = connection # on that port (0 to Nconnect-1) 
  outport/status uses flag1 = output port # (0 to Maxport-1), ignores flag2
  outport/nconnect uses flag1 = output port # (0 to Maxport-1), ignores flag2
  outport/nminnow uses flag1 = output port # (0 to Maxport-1),
                       flag2 = connection # on that port (0 to Nconnect-1) 
  outport/direct uses flag1 = output port # (0 to Maxport-1), ignores flag2 :pre
:ule

[C examples:]

int nlocal = phish_query("nlocal",0,0);
int nrecv = phish_query("outport/direct",2,0); :pre

[Python syntax:]

def query(str,flag1,flag2) :pre

[Python examples:]

import phish
nlocal = phish.query("nlocal",0,0)
nrecv = phish.query("outport/direct",2,0)

[Description:]

This is a PHISH library functions which can be called from a minnow
application.  In PHISH lingo, a "minnow" is a stand-alone application
which makes calls to the "PHISH library"_Library.html.






A PHISH program typically includes one or more sets of minnows, as
specified in a PHISH input script.  Each minnow in each set is an
individual process.  In a local sense, each minnow has a local-ID from
0 to Nlocal-1 within its set, where {Nlocal} is the number of minnows
in the set.  Globally, each minnow has a global-ID from 0 to
Nglobal-1, where {Nglobal} is the total number of minnows.  The
global-IDs are ordered by set, so that minnows within each set have
consecutive IDs.  These IDs enable the PHISH library to orchestrate
communication of datums between minnows in different sets.  E.g. when
running the MPI version of the PHISH library, the global-ID
corresponsds to the rank ID of an MPI process, used in MPI_Send() and
MPI_Recv() function calls.

:line

The phish_school() function can be used to query the local and global
information about the minnow, both within its local set of duplicate
minnows, and within the global school of minnows.

The meaning of the 4 returned values {idlocal}, {nlocal}, {idglobal},
and {nglobal} are as described above for the {-minnow} command-line
switch.

NOTE: also need phish_school or a variatnt to tell something
      about other sets connected to?
      for phish_send_direct() function

[Restrictions:] none

[Related commands:]

"phish_init"_phish_init.html
