"PHISH WWW Site"_pws - "PHISH Documentation"_pd - "Bait.py Commands"_pc :c

:link(pws,http://phish.sandia.gov)
:link(pd,Manual.html)
:link(pc,Bait.html)

:line

reverse program :h3

[Syntax:]

reverse :pre

this program takes no arguments :ul

[Examples:]

wrapsink "reverse"
wrapss "reverse" :pre

[Description:]

Reverse is a stand-along non-PHISH program that can be wrapped with a
PHISH minnow so it can be used in a PHISH program.  In "PHISH
lingo"_Section_intro.html#intro_2, a "minnow" is a stand-alone
application which makes calls to the "PHISH library"_Library.html to
exchange data with other PHISH minnows.

The reverse program simply reads lines from stdin, reverses the order
of the characters, and writes the resulting string to stdout.  PHISH
minnows that can wrap the reverse program include the
"wrapsink"_wrapsink.html and "wrapss"_wrapss.html, which convert
stdin/stdout into the receiving and sending of datums.

[Ports:]

The reverse program does not call the PHISH library and thus does not
use PHISH ports directly.  But if it is wrapped with the
"wrapsink"_wrapsink.html or "wrapss"_wrapss.html minnows then they use
one input port 0 to receive datums which are then read by the reverse
program via stdin.  If it is wrapped with the "wrapss"_wrapss.html
minnow then it uses one output port 0 to send datums that are written
to stdout by the reverse program.

[Operation:]

The reverse program simply reads a line of input from stdin, stores it
as a string, reverse the order of characters in the string, and writes
it to stdout.  See the doc pages for the "wrapsink"_wrapsink.html or
"wrapss"_wrapss.html minnows for how they convert datums they receive
to lines of text that the reverse program can read from stdin, and how
they convert lines of text that the reverse program writes to stdout
to datums they send.

[Data:]

The reverse program does not call the PHISH library and thus does not
deal directly with PHISH data types.

[Restrictions:] none

The C++ version of the reverse program allocates a buffer of size
MAXLINE = 1024 bytes for reading a line from stdin.  This can be
changed (by editing minnow/echo.cpp) if longer lines are needed.

[Related programs:]

"echo"_echo.html
