"PHISH WWW Site"_pws - "PHISH Documentation"_pd - "Bait.py Commands"_pc :c

:link(pws,http://phish.sandia.gov)
:link(pd,Manual.html)
:link(pc,Bait.html)

:line

wrapsource minnow :h3

[Syntax:]

wrapsource -f "program" :pre

-f = optional flag for substituting input datums into "program"
program = shell command for launching executable program :ul

[Examples:]

wrapsource "myexe"
wrapsource "myexe -n 3 -o outfile < in.script"
wrapsource -f "myexe -n 3 -o outfile < %s" :pre

[Description:]

Wrapsource is a PHISH minnow that can be used in a PHISH program.  In
PHISH lingo, a "minnow" is a stand-alone application which makes calls
to the "PHISH library"_Library.html to exchange data with other PHISH
minnows.

The wrapsource minnow is used to wrap a stand-alone non-PHISH
application so that the lines it writes to stdout can be sent
as datums to other PHISH minnows.  It is a mechanism for using
non-PHISH applications as minnows in a PHISH net.

[Ports:]

The wrapsource minnow uses one input port 0 if the -f flag is
specified, otherwise it uses no input ports.  It uses one output port
0 to send datums.

[Operation:]

The wrapsource minnow has two modes of operation, depending on whether
the -f flag is specified.  In either case, the {program} argument is
treated as a string that is executed as a command by the shell.

As in the examples above {program} can be any string with flags or
redirection operators.  If the string contains spaces, it should be
enclosed in quotes in the PHISH input script so that it is treated as
a single argument when the script is read by the
"bait.py"_Section_bait.html tool.

If no -f flag is specified, the wrapsouce minnow launches a single
instance of the {program} command and reads the output it writes to
stdout a line at a time.

If the -f flag is specified, the wrapsouce minnow calls the
"phish_loop"_phish_recv.html function.  Each time an input datum is
received, its single string field is inserted in the {program} string,
as a replacement for a "%s" that it is presumed to contain.  This can
be used, for example, to substitute a filename into the {program}
string.  The wrapsource minnow then launches the modified {program}
command and reads the output it generates.  When the program exits,
control returns to "phish_loop"_phish_loop.html, and a new datum can
be received.  Thus over time, the wrapsource minnow may launch many
instances of {program}.

Each time a line of output is read from the running {program} the
wrapsource minnow sends it as a string (without the trailing newline)
to its output port 0.

If no -f flag is specified, the wrapsource minnow calls
"phish_exit"_phish_exit.html after the launched program exits.  If -f
is specified, the wrapsource minnow shuts down when its input port is
closed by receiving a sufficient number of "done" messages.

[Data:]

If the -f flag is specified, the count minnow must receive single
field datums of type PHISH_STRING.  It sends single-field datums of
type PHISH_STRING.

[Restrictions:]

The C++ version of the wrapsouce minnow allocates a buffer of size
MAXLINE = 1024 bytes for reading lines of output written to stdout by
the wrapped program.  This can be changed (by editing
minnow/wrapsource.cpp) if longer lines are needed.

[Related minnows:]

"wrapsink"_wrapsink.html, "wrapss"_wrapss.html
