"PHISH WWW Site"_pws - "PHISH Documentation"_pd - "Bait.py Commands"_pc :c

:link(pws,http://phish.sandia.gov)
:link(pd,Manual.html)
:link(pc,Bait.html)

:line

wrapss minnow :h3

[Syntax:]

wrapss -f "program" :pre

program = shell command for launching executable program :ul

[Examples:]

wrapsource "myexe"
wrapsource "myexe -n 3 -o outfile < in.script" :pre

[Description:]

Wrapss is a PHISH minnow that can be used in a PHISH program.  In
PHISH lingo, a "minnow" is a stand-alone application which makes calls
to the "PHISH library"_Library.html to exchange data with other PHISH
minnows.

The wrapss minnow is used to wrap a stand-alone non-PHISH application
so that datums can be sent to it from other PHISH minnows as lines it
reads from stdin, and lines it writes to stdout can be sent as datums
to other minnows.  It is a mechanism for using non-PHISH applications
as minnows in a PHISH net.

[Ports:]

The wrapss minnow uses one input port 0 to receive datums and one
output port 0 to send datums.

[Operation:]

When the wrapss minnow starts, the {program} argument is treated as a
string that is executed as a command by the shell.  As in the examples
above {program} can be any string with flags or redirection operators.
If the string contains spaces, it should be enclosed in quotes in the
PHISH input script so that it is treated as a single argument when the
script is read by the "bait.py"_Section_bait.html tool.

After the wrapss minnow launches the {program} command, it calls the
"phish_probe"_phish_recv.html function.  Each time an input datum is
received, its single string field is written to the running {program}
with a trailing newline, so that the {program} reads it as a line of
input from stdin. When no input datum is available, "phish_probe"
returns control to the wrapss minnow which checks if there is any
output that the running {program} has written to stdout.  If there is,
the wrapss minnow sends it as a string (without the trailing newline)
to its output port 0.

Note that there is no requirement that the running {program} produce a
line of output for every line of input it reads.  It may for example,
read all of its input, compute for a while, then produce all of its
output.  Or it may produce output in bursts of lines, after reading
multiple input lines.

The wrapss minnow shuts down when its input port is closed by
receiving a sufficient number of "done" messages.  When this occurs,
it closes the stdin pipe the running {program} is reading from, which
should cause it to exit.  The wrapss minnow reads all the final output
produced by the running program until it exits and converts it into
datums that it sends to its output port 0.  It then calls
"phish_exit"_phish_exit.html.

[Data:]

The wrapss minnow must receive single field datums of type
PHISH_STRING.  It also sends single-field datums of type PHISH_STRING.

[Restrictions:]

The C++ version of the wrapss minnow allocates a buffer of size
MAXLINE = 1024 bytes for both converting the PHISH_STRING fields of
received datums into lines of input read from stdin by the wrapped
program, and for reading lines of output written to stdout by the
wrapped program.  This can be changed (by editing minnow/wrapss.cpp)
if longer lines are needed.

[Related minnows:]

"wrapsink"_wrapsink.html, "wrapsource"_wrapsource.html
