"PHISH WWW Site"_pws - "PHISH Documentation"_pd - "Bait.py Commands"_pc :c

:link(pws,http://www.sandia.gov/~sjplimp/phish.html)
:link(pd,Manual.html)
:link(pc,Bait.html)

:line

wrapsink minnow :h3

[Syntax:]

wrapsink "program" :pre

program = shell command for launching executable program :ul

[Examples:]

wrapsink "myexe"
wrapsource "myexe -n 3 -o outfile < in.script"
wrapsink "ls *" :pre

[Description:]

Wrapsink is a PHISH minnow that can be used in a PHISH program.  In
"PHISH lingo"_Section_intro.html#intro_2, a "minnow" is a stand-alone
application which makes calls to the "PHISH library"_Library.html to
exchange data with other PHISH minnows.

The wrapsink minnow is used to wrap a non-PHISH application so that
datums can be sent to it from other PHISH minnows as lines it reads
from stdin.  It is a mechanism for using non-PHISH applications as
minnows in a PHISH net.

[Ports:]

The wrapsink minnow uses one input port 0 and no output ports.

[Operation:]

When the wrapsink minnow starts, the {program} argument is treated as
a string that is executed as a command by the shell.  As in the
examples above {program} can be an executable program name or a shell
command.  It can include flags or redirection operators.  If the
string contains spaces, it should be enclosed in quotes in the PHISH
input script so that it is treated as a single argument when the
script is read by the "bait.py"_Section_bait.html tool.

After the wrapsink minnow launches the {program} command, it calls the
"phish_loop"_phish_recv.html function.  Each time an input datum is
received, its single string field is written to the running {program}
with a trailing newline, so that the {program} reads it as a line of
input from stdin.  The {program} may write to the screen or a file as
often as it chooses, but its output is not captured by the wrapsink
minnow.

The wrapsource minnow shuts down when its input port is closed by
receiving a sufficient number of "done" messages.  When this occurs,
it closes the stdin pipe the running {program} is reading from, which
should cause it to exit.

[Data:]

The wrapsink minnow must receive single field datums of type
PHISH_STRING.

[Restrictions:]

The C++ version of the wrapsink minnow allocates a buffer of size
MAXLINE = 1024 bytes for converting the PHISH_STRING fields of
received datums into lines of input read from stdin by the wrapped
program.  This can be changed (by editing minnow/wrapsink.cpp) if
longer lines are needed.

[Related minnows:]

"wrapsource"_wrapsource.html, "wrapss"_wrapss.html
