<HEAD>
    <TITLE> PHISH Library </TITLE>
    <meta name="Description" content="PHISH Library home page">
    <meta name="keywords" content="PHISH, streaming data analysis">
    <meta name="google-site-verification" content="jIe-V87O61oNvgWFgBXMeF5bFl35XjSaG0Fm8_7q5VU" />
    <meta name="review" content="03_27_2012" />
    <meta name="filename" content="index.html" />
    <meta name="subject" content="PHISH Library home page" />
    <meta name="sandia.approval_type" content="formal" />
    <meta name="sandia.approved" content="2004-4449W" />
    <link rev="owns" title="Steve Plimpton" href="mailto:sjplimp@sandia.gov" />
    <link rev="made, publisher" title="Steve Plimpton" href="mailto:sjplimp@sandia.gov" />
    <meta name="MSSmartTagsPreventParsing" content="TRUE" />
    <meta name="Author" content="Steve Plimpton" />
</HEAD>

PHISH Library :c,h3

{Remember, a dead fish can float downstream, but it takes a live
one to swim upstream.} --  W. C. Fields :c

{So long, and thanks for all the phish.} -- with apologies to Douglas Adams :c

:b

:c,image(phish/images/school.jpg)

:b

Note: This site is not about Phish the band, or illicit phishing for
personal info, but about PHISH, which is software for writing parallel
programs that process streaming data. :c

:line

This is the home page for the PHISH library, which provides a
framework for processing large volumes of data, either in a real-time
streaming context or from files.

"Pheatures"_phish/features.html,
"Documentation"_phish/doc/Manual.html,
"Download"_phish/download.html,
"Publications"_phish/papers.html,
"Latest features & bug fixes"_phish/bug.html,
"Contribute"_phish/contribute.html,
"Open source"_phish/open_source.html :tb(c=4,ea=c,a=c)

PHISH stands for Parallel Harness for Informatic Stream Hashing.  The
phishy metaphor is meant to evoke the image of many small minnows
(programs) swimming in a stream (of data).

PHISH is a lightweight framework which a set of independent processes
can use to exchange data as they run on the same desktop machine, on
processors of a parallel machine, or on different machines across a
network.  This enables them to work in a coordinated parallel fashion
to perform computations on either streaming, archived, or
self-generated data.

The PHISH distribution includes a simple, portable library for
performing data exchanges in useful patterns either via "MPI
message-passing"_mpi or "ZMQ sockets"_zmq.  PHISH input scripts are
used to describe a data-processing algorithm, and additional tools
provided in the PHISH distribution convert the script into a form that
can be launched as a parallel job.

PHISH was developed at Sandia National Laboratories, a US Department
of Energy facility, for use on "informatics problems"_informatics.  It
has a C-style interface which can be used from any hi-level language,
including C, C++, Fortran, or Python.  PHISH is distributed as an
open-source code, under the terms of the modified "Berkeley Software
Distribution (BSD) License"_bsd.  See "this
page"_phish/open_source.html for more details.

The authors of PHISH are "Steve Plimpton"_sjp and Tim Shead, who
can be contacted at sjplimp at sandia.gov and tshead at sandia.gov.

The PHISH WWW site is hosted by Sandia, which has this "Privacy and
Security statement"_security.

:link(security,http://www.sandia.gov/general/privacy-security/index.html)

:link(snl,http://www.sandia.gov)
:link(doe,http://www.doe.gov)
:link(bsd,http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BSD_license)
:link(sjp,http://www.sandia.gov/~sjplimp)

:link(mpi,http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Message_Passing_Interface)
:link(zmq,http://www.zeromq.org)
:link(informatics,http://www.sandia.gov/~sjplimp/informatics.html)

:line

These are other software packages that provide frameworks for
streaming computations:

Twitter Storm by Nathan Marz ("overview"_tsover and "Git repo"_tsrepo)
"InfoSpheres Streams"_ibm (commercial package from IBM) :ul

:link(tsover,http://engineering.twitter.com/2011/08/storm-is-coming-more-details-and-plans.html)
:link(tsrepo,https://github.com/nathanmarz/storm)
:link(ibm,http://www-01.ibm.com/software/data/infosphere/stream-computing)

:line

Recent PHISH News :c,h4

<IMG SRC = "images/new.gif"> (planned for 6/12) Initial open-source
release of the PHISH library.  See explanation on "this
page"_phish/download.html :ulb,l

:ule
